@ignore
@node Glossary
@chapter Glossary
@c This 'ignore' section fools texinfo-all-menus-update into creating
@c proper menus for this chapter.
@end ignore

@table @asis
@kwItem{BNF}
In semantic 1.4, a BNF file represented ``Bovine Normal Form'', the
grammar file used for the 1.4 parser generator.  This was a play on
Backus-Naur Form which proved too confusing.

@kwItem{bovinate}
A verb representing what happens when a bovine parser parses a file.

@kwItem{bovine lambda}
In a bovine, or LL parser, the bovine lambda is a function to execute
when a specific set of match rules has succeeded in matching text from
the buffer.

@kwItem{bovine parser}
A parser using the bovine parser generator.  It is an LL parser
suitible for small simple languages.

@kwItem{context}

@kwItem{LALR}

@kwItem{lexer}
A program which converts text into a stream of tokens by analyzing
them lexically.  Lexers will commonly create strings, symbols,
keywords and punctuation, and strip whitespaces and comments.

@kwItem{LL}

@kwItem{nonterminal}
A nonterminal symbol or simply a nonterminal stands for a class of
syntactically equivalent groupings. A nonterminal symbol name is used
in writing grammar rules.

@kwItem{overloadable}
Some functions are defined via @code{define-overload}.
These can be overloaded via ....

@kwItem{parser}
A program that converts @b{tokens} to @b{tags}.

@kwItem{tag}
A tag is a representation of some entity in a language file, such as a
function, variable, or include statement.  In semantic, the word tag is
used the same way it is used for the etags or ctags tools.

A tag is usually bound to a buffer region via overlay, or it just
specifies character locations in a file.

@kwItem{token}
A single atomic item returned from a lexer.  It represents some set
of characters found in a buffer.

@kwItem{token stream}
The output of the lexer as well as the input to the parser.

@kwItem{wisent parser}
A parser using the wisent parser generator.  It is a port of bison to
Emacs Lisp.  It is an LALR parser suitable for complex languages.

@end table
