\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c
@c $Id: cogre.texi,v 1.4 2009-04-06 02:02:12 zappo Exp $
@c
@setfilename cogre.info
@set TITLE COGRE: COnnected GRaph Editor 
@set AUTHOR Eric M. Ludlam
@settitle @value{TITLE}

@ifinfo
@dircategory Emacs
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* cogre: (cogre).       Graphs & UML for Emacs
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@sp 10
@center @titlefont{cogre}
@vskip 0pt plus 1 fill
Copyright @copyright{} 2001, 2008, 2009 Eric M. Ludlam
@end titlepage

@macro COGRE{}
@i{COGRE}
@end macro

@macro EIEIO{}
@i{EIEIO}
@end macro

@node Top
@top @value{TITLE}

@COGRE{} is a package that enables Emacs to display connected graph
diagrams in a text buffer.  The main goal is to provide UML class
diagrams, but any kind of graph can be supported through object
inheritance via @EIEIO{} @xref{(eieio)Top}.

Warning: Very little in this manual has been written.

@menu
* Getting Started::       Graphs, Nodes, and Links
* Class Diagrams::        Creating Class diagrams
* Export::                Exporting your graph to different formats.
* Semantic Support::      Emacs can make diagrams for you
* Index::
@end menu

@node Getting Started
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
@chapter Getting Started

There are three basic parts to any @COGRE{} interface.

@enumerate
@item Graph
The graph consists of a buffer, and all child elements in that graph.
The graph is treated as any other Emacs buffer.  When that buffer is
selected, Graph editing commands are available.
@item Node
A Node consists of a square region of screen space, and usually a
name.  Nodes can be anything, but common examples are Classes,
Packages, or other ``object like'' things.
@item Link
A Link is a line that connects two nodes.  A link may not exist
without a node at both ends.  When a node is deleted, all links
connected to it in some way are also deleted.
@end enumerate

The first step to using @COGRE{} is to create a new graph.  Once you
have a graph, you can create nodes and links.

You can create a new graph with the @code{cogre} command, or open a
new file that ends with the @file{.cgr} extension.

Use normal keybindings such as @kbd{C-x C-s} to save your graph into a
file.  Use a @file{.cgr} extension so Emacs can correctly parse the
file into a graph again later.

@defun cogre name &optional graph-class
@anchor{cogre}
Create a new graph not associated with a buffer.
The new graph will be given @var{NAME}.  See @dfn{cogre-mode} for details.
Optional argument @var{GRAPH-CLASS} indicates the type of graph to create.
@end defun

@menu
* Creating Nodes and Links ::   Create new nodes and links
* Moving Nodes ::               Move nodes around
* Customizing Nodes ::          Customize details about a node
@end menu

@node Creating Nodes and Links
@section Creating Nodes and Links

The easiest way to create a node is with the insert popup menu.  Right
click anywhere in the graph where there is no pre-existing node or
link, and a menu will appear allowing you to select the node style you
want.

Nodes are created with the command @code{cogre-new-node}, which is
also bound to @kbd{N} in the graph.

@deffn Command cogre-new-node point nodetype
@anchor{cogre-new-node}
Insert a new node at the current point.
Argument @var{point} is a position to insert this node to.
@var{nodetype} is the eieio class name for the node to insert.
@end deffn

The easiest way to create a link is with a @kbd{mouse-2} drag
operation.  Click the middle mouse button on a node, and drag the
cursor to a second node.  A popup menu will appear where the link type
can be selected.  The new link will be created connecting the two
nodes.

New links can also be created with the command @code{cogre-new-link}
which is bound to @kbd{L}.

@deffn Command cogre-new-link mark point &optional linktype
@anchor{cogre-new-link}
Insert a new link from the node at @var{mark} to @var{point} of @var{linktype}.
@var{mark} is the node within which the current mark is set.
@var{point} is the node the cursor is in.
@var{linktype} is the @EIEIO{} class name for the link to insert.
@end deffn

To configure the default type of node to insert via the keyboard, such
as a UML class node, use @code{cogre-default-node}.  Likewise, use
@code{cogre-default-link}.  These are bound to @kbd{C-c C-n}, and
@kbd{C-c C-l} respectively.

@deffn Command cogre-default-node &optional node prefix
@anchor{cogre-default-node}
Return the default node type.
If run interactively, query for a new node to make the default.
If called non-interactivly there is no default, query for one.
If @var{node} is supplied, use that.
If there is a @var{prefix} argument, then force a query for one.
@end deffn

@deffn Command cogre-default-link &optional link prefix
@anchor{cogre-default-link}
Return the default link type.
If run interactively, query for a new link to make the default.
If called non-interactivly there is no default, query for one.
If @var{link} is supplied, use that.
If there is a @var{prefix} argument, then force a query for one.
@end deffn

@node Moving Nodes
@section Moving Nodes

Moving nodes around is also how to move links around.  As a node
moves, the links will re-route.  Movement is done with the mouse, or
with meta key bindings.

To use the mouse, click with the left mouse button (@kbd{mouse-1}) and
drag the node to a new location.

@table @kbd
@item M-b
@itemx meta left
Move a node left one character
@item M-f
@itemx meta right
Move a node right one character
@item M-n
@itemx meta down
Move a node down one character
@item M-p
@itemx meta up
Move a node up one character
@item TAB
Move point to the next node
@item M-TAB
Move point to the previous node
@end table

Sometimes the movement via keyboard of nodes will cause other nodes to
get their graphic to be partially erased.  Minimal steps are taken to
refresh the graph to keep things fast in large drawings.  To fix the
problem, use the @kbd{R} keybinding to redraw the entire graph from
scratch.

@node Customizing Nodes
@section Customizing Nodes

Nodes and links are @EIEIO{} objects, and can be customized.  Press
@kbd{RET} on a node or link to customize the slots of that object.

@node Class Diagrams
@chapter Class Diagrams

Add text here

@node Export
@chapter Export

COGRE can export your graph into different formats.  The simplest
format is into an all ASCII diagram:

@defun cogre-export-ascii
@anchor{cogre-export-ascii}
Export the current diagram into an @var{ASCII} buffer.
@end defun

Other formats are supported through the configuration of Graphviz
tools.  You will need to install and configure Graphviz to use these
features.  The CEDET variables controlling how dot and neato are
called are:

@defun cedet-graphviz-dot-command
@anchor{cedet-graphviz-dot-command}
Command name for the Graphviz @var{DOT} executable.
@end defun

@defun cedet-graphviz-neato-command
@anchor{cedet-graphviz-neato-command}
Command name for the Graphviz @var{NEATO} executable.
@end defun

Also, when converting to and from DOT formatted files, a scaling
factor needs to be applied as the DOT coordinates (in points) are
converted into character sized units for COGRE.

@defun cogre-dot-node-position-scale
@anchor{cogre-dot-node-position-scale}
The scale to use when converting between @var{COGRE} and @var{DOT} position values.
This is of the format ( @var{XSCALE} . @var{YSCALE} ).
@var{DOT} uses points, where as @var{COGRE} uses characters.
@end defun

Here are some handy exporting commands.

@defun cogre-export-dot
@anchor{cogre-export-dot}
Export the current @var{COGRE} graph to @var{DOT} notation.
@var{DOT} is a part of GraphViz.
@end defun

@defun cogre-export-dot-png
@anchor{cogre-export-dot-png}
Export the current @var{COGRE} graph to @var{DOT}, then convert that to @var{PNG}.
The png file is then displayed in an Emacs buffer.
@var{DOT} is a part of GraphVis.
@end defun

@defun cogre-export-dot-postscript-print
@anchor{cogre-export-dot-postscript-print}
Print the current graph.
This is done by exporting the current @var{COGRE} graph to @var{DOT}, then
convert that to Postscript before printing.
@var{DOT} is a part of GraphVis.
@end defun

@node Semantic Support
@chapter Semantic Support

Add text here

@node Index
@chapter Index

@contents

@bye
